---
layout: post
title: Google Charts API Promise
description: The Google Charts API must be loaded asynchronously, so how can you tell when it's loaded?  In this post I answer that, and also give some related tips and tricks.
category: AngularJS
tags: [AngularJS, Google-Charts-API, Google-Visualization, Angular-Google-Chart]
date: 2015-04-02
---

p. The Google Charts API must be loaded Asynchronously. So, when using the "angular-google-chart":1 directive, how can you tell when then API has become available to the controller?

h3. The Problem

p. The "Angular-Google-Chart":1 directive is designed in such a way that you may never actually need direct access to the "Charts API":2.  But this simple case is pretty narrow.  If you need to use some of the advanced visualization features, or have need to manipulate or filter data, then you will need access to the Charts API directly.

h3. The Promise

p. The module provided with the angular-google-chart project provides a service factory that returns a promise.  That promise will resolve when the API has loaded.

p. Now, to be more specific, the module is providing a promise that resolves when the API is loaded.  It does not return an error if the load fails. It does not return any object on success.  The resolve on success is just a signal that the API is now available for use, at the namespaces defined by the Google Charts team.

h3. Simple Case

p. This example simply instantiates a controller, which receives the "googleChartApiPromise":3 through dependency injection.  When the api has successfully loaded, the controller creates a new blank "DataTable":4 instance.

{% highlight javascript %}
(function (){
  //app module already declared elsewhere
  angular.module('myApp')
    .controller('MainController', MainController);

  MainController.$inject = ['$scope', 'googleChartApiPromise'];

  function MainController($scope, googleChartApiPromise){
    // Setup bindable objects
    $scope.chart = {};

    // Run function to initlize controller
    init();

    function init(){
      googleChartApiPromise.then(chartApiSuccess);
    }

    function chartApiSuccess(){
      $scope.chart.type = 'LineChart';
      $scope.chart.data = new google.visualization.DataTable();
    }
  }
})();
{% endhighlight %}

h3. $q.all()

p. So the first example works very well for simple scenarios.  The next scenario is a solution for when you need to use the api to process some data, or just to run after some data has loaded.

p. This example uses the "$q":6 service that comes built into "AngularJS":5 to wrap two promises together into a new promise that resolves when both promises have resolved.  This allows us to wait until both the Charts API and a request made with the "$http":7 service have resolved, and then do something with both.

{% highlight javascript %}
(function(){
  angular.module('myApp')
    .controller('myApp', MainController);

  MainController.$inject = ['$scope', '$q', '$http', 'googleChartApiPromise'];

  function MainController($scope, $q, googleChartApiPromise){
    $scope.chart = {};

    init();

    function init(){
      var dataPromise = $http({
        method: 'GET',
        url: 'http://api.example.com/some-data/'
      });

      $q.all({data: dataPromise, api: googleChartApiPromise})
        .then(apiLoadSuccess);
    }

    function apiLoadSuccess(result){
      $scope.chart.type = 'LineChart';
      //create a new DataTable loaded with data from the HTTP response
      $scope.chart.data = new google.visualization.DataTable(result.data.data);
    }


  }
})();

{% endhighlight %}

h3. The Not-So-Good Idea

p. I was going to write about passing the googleChartsApiPromise as a resolve to ngRoute, but then while researching for this post I realized the the promise never fails.  And with that detail, I decided that it would theoretically be a very bad idea to pass this promise to a route resolve, because if it fails the route change will stall and never return an error.  Not such a great idea after all.

h3. Links

* "Angular Google Chart on GitHub":1
* "Google Charts API Documentation":2
* "AngularJS":5
** "$q Service":6
** "$http Service":7

[1]https://github.com/bouil/angular-google-chart
[2]https://developers.google.com/chart/
[3]https://github.com/bouil/angular-google-chart/blob/96a9b1d37c9d30d8666e45fe9d1255290d84951b/ng-google-chart.js#L37-78
[4]https://developers.google.com/chart/interactive/docs/reference#DataTable
[5]https://angularjs.org/
[6]https://docs.angularjs.org/api/ng/service/$q
[7]https://docs.angularjs.org/api/ng/service/$http
