---
layout: post
title: CodePenTo is Coming!
description: I'm getting excited for CodePenTo next wednesday, so I thought I'd tackle a mini project.
category: Events
tags: [Events, CodePenTo, Rangle.io, CodePen.io, Meetups]
date: 2015-08-07 10:10:00
---

p. I'm getting excited for "CodePenTo":1, coming Wednesday, August 12, 2015 in Toronto. This will be my first tech industry event, so I thought I'd tackle a mini-project. I think I'll stick with my usual subject-matter - "Angular-Google-Chart":5. But since this is a front-end focused crowd - at least I think they are - I'm going to work on something a little more designery. I don't have much of a design focus or skillset myself though, so wish me luck.

p. The mini-project goal is to build a Google Chart with graphics overlayed onto the chart area. I've done this before for a work project, but it was kind of a hack. Now that I know how to make this work, I'll try to clean it up and make it more generic so that it can serve as an example project. I think I'll make this one Maple. Because... why not?

p. In honour of the event sponsor - "CodePen.io":2 - I will be building this example in CodePen.  I've never use their service, so this will be a first. I signed up already and the project's very first building blocks are in place - nothing to see yet, but it's started. You can "check it out now":6, if you want to follow my progress.

p. I have been listening to the CodePen founders' "Podcast":3 for a few months now, and have enjoyed some bits of insight from an operating startup SaaS.

p. I actually discovered CodePenTo because I follow the event's other sponsor, "Rangle.io":4, on twitter.  I stumbled across Rangle.io on "Stack Overflow Careers":7, and was very impressed by their employee value proposition. From the outside the seem to have a very strong, forward-thinking company culture. The team looks to be very diverse, and with a focus on continuously learning, and teaching. Were I looking for a job right now, Rangle would be the first place I applied to.

p. As an aside, I'm also thinking of putting some effort into the design of this site. This is a currently a very blah setup, and I was thinking of adding a bit of colour and a few graphics.

h3. Links
* "CodePenTo Event":1
* Sponsors:
** "CodePen.io":2
** "Rangle.io":4
* "Rangle's Careers Page":7
* "CodePen's Podcast":3
* "Angular-Google-Chart":5
* "My First Pen":6 - Work in Progress

[1]https://nvite.com/CodePenTo/e92c
[2]http://codepen.io/
[3]http://blog.codepen.io/radio/
[4]http://rangle.io/
[5]https://github.com/angular-google-chart/angular-google-chart/
[6]http://codepen.io/Balrog30/pen/yNZxKr
[7]http://careers.stackoverflow.com/company/rangle-io