---
layout: post
title: Writing a Syntax Language for Github's Atom Editor
description: I've wanted to write a syntax highlighter for a markup language I use at work for years.  The language has very little tooling available, and I just wanted to make the markup slightly easier to read.
category: tools
tags: [Atom, Regex, Syntax, Markup, Languages]
---
p. I've wanted to write a syntax highlighter for a markup language I use at work for years. The language has very little tooling available, and I just wanted to make the markup slightly easier to read. I looked into this a few of years ago for Notepad+ or something like that, but found it to be above my ability at the time.

p. When I started working with Atom about a year ago, I looked again. It didn't seem so impossible anymore, except that it required Regular Expressions. That was a bit of a show stopper. Recently though, I read a little article on Regular Expressions and they just kind of clicked for me.  They still take a bit of work to learn, but I suddenly understood enough to get started. So I finally decided to take the plunge and start writing a Syntax Highlighter for that troublesome markup.

h3. Documentation Dilemma

p. The biggest problem I've found so far in authoring a new language highlighter package for Atom is documentation.

p. Searching Google for Atom Syntax Highlighting yielded very few results. Then I discovered that almost all the the first languages implemented for item were ported from highlighters for TextMate. And, not too surprisingly, the language grammar files are a structural match to TextMate's Documentation. I'm not sure how deep this runs, but at the very least Atom has re-implmented the TextMate highlighting system so that the language grammars can be used interchangeably.

[1]https://atom.io/
[2]http://manual.macromates.com/en/language_grammars
[3]http://blog.macromates.com/2005/language-grammars
